GopherCon UK 2023 (#431)
BedrockStreaming/tech.bedrockstreaming.com: _posts/2023-08-12-gophercon-uk-london-2023.md

---
layout: post
title: "GopherCon UK 2023 highlights"
description: My highlights of GopherCon UK 2023
author: pa_bedu
tags: [conference, london, tech, golang, go]
color: rgb(251,87,66)
thumbnail: /images/posts/gopherconuk2023/IMG_6877.jpeg
---
Hello there! I'm Pierre-Alain, a senior back-end developer at Bedrock and I had the opportunity to go to London for the GopherCon UK.

> I travelled by train from Lyon to London, TGV and Eurostar. Train journey not only aligned with my commitment to minimize my carbon footprint for this trip, but is also a enjoyable travel choice. While the cost was higher than taking a train, I would like to thank Bedrock for enabling me to take this option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I travelled by train from Lyon to London, TGV and Eurostar. Train journey not only aligned with my commitment to minimize my carbon footprint for this trip, but is also a enjoyable travel choice. While the cost was higher than taking a plane, I would like to thank Bedrock for enabling me to take this option.
```

![IMG_6877.jpeg](/images/posts/gopherconuk2023/IMG_6877.jpeg)

# What is GopherCon UK ?

GopherCon UK 2023 spans three days, commencing with a workshop day on August 16th, followed by two conference days featuring multiple tracks on August 17th and 18th. The event takes place at The Brewery, at Barbican, situated in the heart of the City of London.

> Attracting over 500 participants, including delegates, speakers, and sponsors, GopherCon UK is dedicated to deliver up-to-date content about Go programming and its associated technologies. All this unfolds within a comfortable and professional atmosphere. The event offers abundant networking prospects, allowing attendees to connect with both international speakers and fellow delegates. This gathering is undeniably one that holds immense value and should not be missed.

Reviewer 2: Ce passage fait très "faux". Ca sonne comme du blah blah marketing copié-collé depuis le site de la conférence, et pas comme un ressenti personnel.

1ère piste si tu veux améliorer : reformuler en forme active, au lieu de la forme passive.
"j'ai trouvé que cet event était professionnel" est plus engageant que "cet événement se déroule dans un cadre professionnel".

# Workshop day (Practical GO for developers)
It was a first time for me to attend a workshop at an event like GopherCon. As a new Gopher, my exposure to writing Go code had been limited. However, I was looking forward to it.

> In the following lines, I'll be sharing the insights I gained during the workshop — knowledge I'm excited to share to both you and my colleagues:

Reviewer 2: Très sympa cette partie "retour d'XP" en mode "ce que MOI j'en ai tiré" 👍 
Peut-être un peu long, limite ça ferait un article indépendant ?

- Because of some unicode characters, you should not use `len()` on a string in case you have emojis, hieroglyph or symbol (£世界). It is better to use `tf8.RuneCountInString()`

- use `fmt.Printf(...)` for debugging
	```go
	package main

	import "fmt"

	func main() {
		s := struct {
			E int
			A string
		}{1, "string"}

		fmt.Printf("%#v, %+v, (%T)", s, s, s)
		// output : struct { E int; A string }{E:1, A:"string"},
		//          {E:1 A:string},
		//          (struct { E int; A string })
	}
	```

- ``` `http://site.name` ```  gives a raw string which can be useful when you have slashes in your string, to avoid having to escape them.

> - About concurency, I liked this image which gives an idea of computer latency compared to a human.

Reviewer 2: pourquoi "about concurency" ? L'image parle uniquement de latence.

Author: my bad ;)

>   - buffered channel of cap n has n non-blocking sends
> - receive from a closed channel will return the zero value without blocking
>  - you can use `val,ok := <- ch` as second left variable to know if value comes from channel or not
> - send or close to a closed channel will panic
> - send or receive on a nil channel will block forever...

- `doc.go` is used to add documentation to packages, example below:

	```go
	/*
	Package nope does nothing as Go package.

	...
	*/
	package nope
	```

- `example_test.go` on a package, gives example tests to other developers

```go
package nope_test

import (
  "fmt"

  "github.com/shipt/nlp"
)

func ExampleTokenize() {
  nothing := nope.SayNothing()
  fmt.Println(nothing)

  // Output:
  // "nothing"
}
```

- you can create a `testdata` folder to store fixtures which would be avoided by compiler

- we should use `testify/require`, `testify/mock` and `testify/suites` *evil laugh*

Workshop given by Miki Tebeka, Ardan Labs was really great and gave the opportunity to compare myself to what is expected from a new Gopher, and so far I would say I'm doing OK. I am now eager to tackle more projects in Go at Bedrock. \o/

# Day one

> Upon arrival, attendees were greeted with a delightful British-style Gopher plush, serving as a warm and wonderful welcome gift.

Reviewer 2: Un autre exemple où la voix passive "les membres du public étaient accueillis" est moins vivante et impliquante qu'une formulation plus active (exemple : "I got this wonderful welcome gift")

#### The coffee shop challenge

Imagine a coffee shop aiming to do:
- a lot of coffee
- for a lot of people
- as fast as possible

For a coffee to be considered complete, three essential actions were required:
- Accept payment
- Steam milk
- Make espresso

Each of these actions takes approximately 2 seconds to execute.

To break it down:
- Serving one customer requires 2 seconds per action, totaling 6 seconds.
- Serving three customers extends the total time to 18 seconds.

#### Scaling for Speed

Initial attempts to introduce goroutines seem straightforward, by merely appending "go" before a method:

```go
 go MakeCoffee()
```

However, for three customers, this results in a staggeringly brief 49 microseconds, practically an impossible feat. The solution wasn't as straightforward as it may seem.

#### Enter the `sync.WaitGroup`
```go
sync.WaitGroup()

defer wg.Done()

wg.Wait()
 ```

Nonetheless, even with this approach, we still find ourselves waiting for each coffee to complete before initiating the next one. Consequently, serving three customers still demands 6 seconds.

> Optimization beckons; each action could potentially transform into its own goroutine. Ultimately, with this approach, serving three customers takes a mere 2 seconds, finally achieving efficient customer service.

Reviewer 2: Je dois réfléchir trop (ou pas assez) : comment ça se passe si le paiement échoue, quand il est fait en asynchrone par rapport aux autres opérations dont servir le café ?

Author: I think too much ! :D

#### Scaling for Load

> Enter containerization! Deployment onto Kubernetes through Docker containers ensues. The coffee shop pods are allocated finite CPU and Memory resources.

Reviewer 2: Allocation de CPU et RAM, ce n'est pas quelque chose de nouveau introduit avec Kubernetes, ni avec la containerization : déjà avec des VMs, on avait une quantité pré-définie de RAM et de CPU. Déjà avec des serveurs physiques, on avait une quantité pré-définie de RAM et de CPU ;-)

> Consider a scenario where 300 customers arrive simultaneously on our webservice. This influx of customers causes the pod to become memory-intensive, ultimately leading to an Out of Memory (OOM) kill.

Reviewer 2: Le "simultaneously" est la grande difficulté ici et l'auto-scaling réactif ne répond pas forcément 😨

While this tutorial doesn't delve into the topic, an intriguing possibility would be to split responsibilities in different pod(payment, milk, espresso) for further optimization and efficiency.

## The 7 Deadly Sins for Gophers

John Gregory provided invaluable insights into the pitfalls to avoid for Gophers, whether seasoned or new. Here's a condensed overview of the key takeaways:

### Lush
The urge to rush into production without due consideration. Concurrency might entice you with the "go" keyword, but remember:
> Use goroutines judiciously, only when necessary.

### Wrath
Substituting "panic" for proper error handling:
> "Using a wall to stop a car instead of the brakes."
>
> Embrace defensive coding practices.
>
> Reserved methods should be utilized outside user runtime; employ them at startup.

### Greed
The desire to future-proof everything:
> Avoid overengineering; simplicity often prevails.

### Sloth
Focusing on "what" rather than "why" in comments:
> Enhance error handling with contextual information. Seek semantic context.
>

> > Utilize `fmt.Errorf("this did not work: %w", err)` for enhanced error messages.

Reviewer 2: je suis très d'accord avec le "why" à privilégier au "what" dans les commentaires.

Je ne comprends pas, par contre, pourquoi l'exemple de code ne montre pas un commentaire ?
Aussi, "this" dans le message d'erreur, ça ne me semble pas très descriptif ?

Author: L'accent était surtout sur l'utilisation de `fmt.Errorf("%w", err)` afin de stacker les erreurs à la suite.

### Gluttony
Unnecessary reliance on frameworks:
> Beware of vulnerabilities.
>
> Begin with simplicity.
>
> Embrace libraries with robust support.

### Envy
Forcing patterns where they aren't required:
> Interfaces aren't always necessary.
>
> Explore "Effective Go" principles.

### Pride
Assuming you possess the ultimate knowledge:
> Avoid artificially restricting API access.

> John Gregory's wisdom shines a light on the potential pitfalls Gophers may encounter. Steering clear of these seven deadly sins can lead to more effective and resilient Go programming practices.

Reviewer 2: Je me dis que, ici, tu peux peut-être faire un parallèle avec ce que tu as vu dans d'autres langages, noter que ces principes te semblent universels et que tu vas, en Go, réappliquer ce que tu fais depuis des années en PHP ?

- **2009:** The pivotal moment when Go was opensourced.
- **2012:** The groundbreaking release of Go 1.0, marking its maturity.

### The Stability of Go 1.0
Balahan emphasized the continuity of Go 1.0, ensuring backward compatibility with all Go 1.* versions.

### Refinement and Progress
- **2015:** Go's strides in version 1.5:
  - Advancements in the compiler.
  - Introduction of a new garbage collector.
  - Adoption of semi-annual releases.

### The Flourishing Ecosystem of 2018
- **2018:** Go's ecosystem flourished, introducing key enhancements:
  - Go modules with caching and checksum features.
  - A focus on creating a secure platform.

### Forever Go 1.*
Balahan said Go 2 "will never happen", as keeping Go 1 program working with all Go 1.* version is their aim from the start.

### Today's Triumphs
In the present:
- Go's user base has multiplied by four since 2018.
- High levels of user satisfaction persist among the Go community.

### The Path Ahead
Looking forward:
- Addressing the loop variable issue. (mostly done in Go 1.21)
- Enhancing onboarding experiences.
- Strengthening vulnerability management.

### A Bonus for the Dev Community

> In the spirit of improving security, Balahan encourages developers to integrate the new `Govulncheck` tool into their CI pipelines. This tool developed by Go team stands as a sentinel, safeguarding against potential vulnerabilities within Go packages.

Reviewer 2: Ajouter un lien ?

## Efficient Debugging and Logging with OpenTelemetry in Go
In the past, our debugging approach was straightforward: Log everything, locally or remotely. However, the landscape has evolved, favoring a combination of logs, traces, and metrics to illuminate the path.

A quote I really liked:

> "Logs are for your future self, left by your past self :)"

While logs remain indispensable, their role can now be enhanced.

- **Absence of Request Context** - Log entries often contain detailed information about microservices, functions, or applications, yet they can fall short in providing the broader request context.

- **Scale Demands Complexity** - To grasp an application's normal functioning, collating and analyzing numerous log entries becomes vital. This can require extensive indexing and complex tools to achieve at scale.

- **Disparity Across Teams and Services** - Uniformity in logs isn't guaranteed across teams, adding complexity when attempting to link them cohesively.

**Enter Distributed Tracing**:

> A game-changer in the debugging realm, distributed tracing offers a comprehensive view of a request's lifecycle. It stands as a potent tool to combat production issues effectively. With end-to-end visibility, distributed tracing is meant to level up your debugging power!

Reviewer 2: Là aussi, je pense que tu peux faire un parallèle avec ce qu'on voit / fait depuis des années, sur nos projets dans d'autres technos ? Histoire de montrer (blog post = un outil de recrutement) qu'on n'est pas non plus à la ramasse et qu'on fait déjà des choses bien.

## The Hacker's Guide to JWT Security

> JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) come with their own set of caveats that need to be carefully considered to ensure a robust security level.

Reviewer 2: en bas de la section de ce talk, une petite conclusion "on fait déjà tout ça, mais c'était cool d'en ré-entendre parler" ?

### Why Testing?
- Tests uncover bugs and validate code changes.
- Tests build confidence in code correctness.
- Tests serve as living documentation, illustrating code behavior.

### Key Testing Principles
1. **Fixture Placement:** Organize test fixtures in a dedicated `testdata` directory, avoided by compiler.
2. **Structured Tests:** Embrace table-driven tests for readability and comprehensive coverage.
3. **Parallelism:** Use caution with parallel tests to avoid unintended interactions.
4. **Test Suites:** Employ `testing.M` for related tests and control setup/teardown with `TestMain`.
5. **Categorization:** Use build tags or environment variables to categorize and skip tests.
6. **Concurrency Safety:** Detect data races with the `-race` flag during testing.
7. **Effective Mocking:** Benefit from embedded interfaces for accurate mocks.
8. **Randomizing Tests:** Introduce randomness with `-shuffle` flag to uncover hidden issues.
9. **Benchmarks:** Gauge code performance with `testing.B`, setup/teardown carefully.
10. **Test Automation:** Automate tests in CI pipelines to maintain consistent quality.
11. **Code Coverage:** Use `-cover` flag to monitor and improve test coverage.

> 

Reviewer 2: Ici aussi, petite conclusion du genre "on fait déjà beaucoup de tests sur nos projets dans d'autres technos et c'était top d'avoir un aperçu des différences entre les façons de tester avec Go -- et ça va me permettre de me mettre bien plus vite à écrire des tests 'the Go way'" ?

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: you could have just say thanks

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 2: ❤️ il y a une conclusion ❤️

> In closing, my journey through GopherCon UK 2023 has been exciting but also tiring for my first Golang Conference. I extend my gratitude to Bedrock for affording me the opportunity to partake in this experience. Your support has empowered me to dive deeper into the world of Go and will enhance my professional growth.

Author: ```suggestion
In closing, my journey through GopherCon UK 2023 has been as exciting as tiring for my first Golang Conference. I thank a lot Bedrock for affording me the opportunity to partake in this experience. Participating to this event helped me to dive deeper into the world of Go and will enhance my professional growth.
```
